README.md, before:

# kaddons

Kubernetes addon compatibility checker. Discovers addons running in any Kubernetes cluster, cross-references them against a curated database of 668 addons, and uses Gemini AI to determine whether each addon is compatible with the cluster's Kubernetes version.

Works with EKS, GKE, AKS, k3s, and any conformant Kubernetes cluster.

## How it works

kaddons uses a three-phase **Plan-and-Execute** pipeline. Phases 1 and 2 are fully deterministic — the same cluster state always produces the same set of addons and fetched data. The LLM is only invoked in Phase 3 to interpret compatibility pages.

```
Phase 1: Discovery        kubectl → detect K8s version + installed workloads
Phase 2: Enrichment       Match against 668-addon DB, fetch compat pages + EOL data
Phase 3: Analysis         Single Gemini call → compatibility verdicts
```

See [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) for the full data flow.

## Prerequisites

- `kubectl` configured with cluster access
- A [Gemini API key](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey)

## Install

**Homebrew:**

```bash
brew install qbandev/tap/kaddons
```

**Go install** (requires Go 1.25.7+):

```bash
go install github.com/qbandev/kaddons/cmd/kaddons@latest
```

**Build from source:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/qbandev/kaddons.git
cd kaddons
make build
# Binary: ./kaddons
```

## Quick start

```bash
export GEMINI_API_KEY=your-key-here

# Scan all addons (JSON output)
kaddons

# HTML report output
kaddons -o html --output-path ./kaddons-report.html

# Check specific addons
kaddons -a cert-manager,karpenter -o html

# Override cluster version
kaddons -c 1.30

# Filter by namespace
kaddons -n kube-system -o html
```

## Flags

| Flag | Short | Default | Description |
|------|-------|---------|-------------|
| `--namespace` | `-n` | `""` (all) | Kubernetes namespace filter |
| `--cluster` | `-c` | `""` (auto-detect) | Kubernetes version override (e.g. `1.30`) |
| `--addons` | `-a` | `""` (all matched) | Comma-separated addon name filter |
| `--key` | `-k` | `""` (falls back to `GEMINI_API_KEY`) | Gemini API key |
| `--model` | `-m` | `gemini-3-flash-preview` | Gemini model |
| `--output` | `-o` | `json` | Output format: `json` or `html` |
| `--output-path` | | `./kaddons-report.html` | Output file path when `--output html` is selected |

## Output

### JSON (default)

```json
{
  "k8s_version": "1.30",
  "addons": [
    {
      "name": "cert-manager",
      "namespace": "cert-manager",
      "installed_version": "v1.14.2",
      "compatible": "true",
      "latest_compatible_version": "1.18",
      "note": "The compatibility matrix at https://cert-manager.io/docs/releases/ states v1.14 supports K8s 1.24-1.31. Supported until 2025-09-10."
    },
    {
      "name": "external-secrets",
      "namespace": "external-secrets",
      "installed_version": "v0.14.2",
      "compatible": "false",
      "latest_compatible_version": "0.13.x",
      "note": "Upgrade required: https://external-secrets.io/latest/introduction/stability-support/ states ESO 0.14.x only supports K8s 1.32."
    },
    {
      "name": "goldilocks",
      "namespace": "kube-system",
      "installed_version": "8.0.0",
      "compatible": "unknown",
      "note": "The page at fairwinds.com is a product overview without a version compatibility matrix."
    }
  ]
}
```

The `compatible` field is a tri-state string:
- `"true"` — addon version is confirmed compatible
- `"false"` — addon version is not compatible; check `latest_compatible_version`
- `"unknown"` — compatibility could not be determined

The `note` field always cites its source URL and includes support-until dates when available.

### HTML report (`-o html`)

Writes a styled report to `./kaddons-report.html` by default (or to `--output-path` if specified). JSON output remains the default for stdout pipelines.

## Database validation (development tool)

A separate `kaddons-validate` binary checks the addon database for URL health and compatibility matrix content. It is not shipped with releases — it's a development and CI tool.

```bash
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate              # Run both checks (default)
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --links      # Only reachability checks
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --matrix     # Only content validation
make validate                              # Shorthand for the above
```

Exit codes: `0` all checks passed, `1` validation failures found, `2` runtime error.

A [GitHub Actions workflow](.github/workflows/linkcheck.yml) runs link checks weekly and creates issues for broken links. See [docs/ci-cd.md](docs/ci-cd.md).

## Accuracy and limitations

The LLM reads each addon's official compatibility page and extracts version support information. It returns `"unknown"` rather than guessing when data is unclear. Results should be treated as a **triage tool** — verify critical decisions against the official documentation linked in each `note` field.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) | Pipeline design, data flow, addon matching algorithm |
| [docs/addon-database.md](docs/addon-database.md) | Database schema, categories, how to add new addons |
| [docs/configuration.md](docs/configuration.md) | Flags, environment variables, output formats |
| [docs/ci-cd.md](docs/ci-cd.md) | CI pipeline, release process, automated link checking |
| [docs/contributing.md](docs/contributing.md) | Development setup, testing, project structure |
| [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) | Coding agent instructions for this repository |

## Testing

```bash
go test -v -race ./...
```

Commit message:

refactor: linearize addon analysis with shared resilience
Switch compatibility analysis to a deterministic one-addon-at-a-time flow with structured evidence pruning and per-addon progress output, while preserving source-cited note enrichment and safe unknown fallbacks. Centralize retry/backoff policy across Gemini, HTTP, kubectl, and validation paths to reduce hangs and make behavior consistent.

Made-with: Cursor

README.md, after:

# kaddons

Kubernetes addon compatibility checker. Discovers addons running in any Kubernetes cluster, cross-references them against a curated database of 668 addons, and uses Gemini AI to determine whether each addon is compatible with the cluster's Kubernetes version.

Works with EKS, GKE, AKS, k3s, and any conformant Kubernetes cluster.

## How it works

kaddons uses a three-phase **Plan-and-Execute** pipeline. Phases 1 and 2 are fully deterministic — the same cluster state always produces the same set of addons and fetched data. The LLM is only invoked in Phase 3 to interpret compatibility pages.

```
Phase 1: Discovery        kubectl → detect K8s version + installed workloads
Phase 2: Enrichment       Match against 668-addon DB, fetch compat pages + EOL data
Phase 3: Analysis         Linear per-addon Gemini calls → compatibility verdicts
```

See [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) for the full data flow.

## Prerequisites

- `kubectl` configured with cluster access
- A [Gemini API key](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey)

## Install

**Homebrew:**

```bash
brew install qbandev/tap/kaddons
```

**Go install** (requires Go 1.25.7+):

```bash
go install github.com/qbandev/kaddons/cmd/kaddons@latest
```

**Build from source:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/qbandev/kaddons.git
cd kaddons
make build
# Binary: ./kaddons
```

## Quick start

```bash
export GEMINI_API_KEY=your-key-here

# Scan all addons (JSON output)
kaddons

# HTML report output
kaddons -o html --output-path ./kaddons-report.html

# Check specific addons
kaddons -a cert-manager,karpenter -o html

# Override cluster version
kaddons -c 1.30

# Filter by namespace
kaddons -n kube-system -o html
```

## Flags

| Flag | Short | Default | Description |
|------|-------|---------|-------------|
| `--namespace` | `-n` | `""` (all) | Kubernetes namespace filter |
| `--cluster` | `-c` | `""` (auto-detect) | Kubernetes version override (e.g. `1.30`) |
| `--addons` | `-a` | `""` (all matched) | Comma-separated addon name filter |
| `--key` | `-k` | `""` (falls back to `GEMINI_API_KEY`) | Gemini API key |
| `--model` | `-m` | `gemini-3-flash-preview` | Gemini model |
| `--output` | `-o` | `json` | Output format: `json` or `html` |
| `--output-path` | | `./kaddons-report.html` | Output file path when `--output html` is selected |

## Output

### JSON (default)

```json
{
  "k8s_version": "1.30",
  "addons": [
    {
      "name": "cert-manager",
      "namespace": "cert-manager",
      "installed_version": "v1.14.2",
      "compatible": "true",
      "latest_compatible_version": "1.18",
      "note": "The compatibility matrix at https://cert-manager.io/docs/releases/ states v1.14 supports K8s 1.24-1.31. Supported until 2025-09-10."
    },
    {
      "name": "external-secrets",
      "namespace": "external-secrets",
      "installed_version": "v0.14.2",
      "compatible": "false",
      "latest_compatible_version": "0.13.x",
      "note": "Upgrade required: https://external-secrets.io/latest/introduction/stability-support/ states ESO 0.14.x only supports K8s 1.32."
    },
    {
      "name": "goldilocks",
      "namespace": "kube-system",
      "installed_version": "8.0.0",
      "compatible": "unknown",
      "note": "The page at fairwinds.com is a product overview without a version compatibility matrix."
    }
  ]
}
```

The `compatible` field is a tri-state string:
- `"true"` — addon version is confirmed compatible
- `"false"` — addon version is not compatible; check `latest_compatible_version`
- `"unknown"` — compatibility could not be determined

The `note` field always cites its source URL and includes support-until dates when available.

### HTML report (`-o html`)

Writes a styled report to `./kaddons-report.html` by default (or to `--output-path` if specified). JSON output remains the default for stdout pipelines.

## Database validation (development tool)

A separate `kaddons-validate` binary checks the addon database for URL health and compatibility matrix content. It is not shipped with releases — it's a development and CI tool.

```bash
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate              # Run both checks (default)
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --links      # Only reachability checks
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --matrix     # Only content validation
make validate                              # Shorthand for the above
```

Exit codes: `0` all checks passed, `1` validation failures found, `2` runtime error.

A [GitHub Actions workflow](.github/workflows/linkcheck.yml) runs link checks weekly and creates issues for broken links. See [docs/ci-cd.md](docs/ci-cd.md).

## Accuracy and limitations

The LLM reads each addon's official compatibility page and extracts version support information. Analysis is deterministic in ordering and context construction, and each addon is evaluated independently with bounded retries/timeouts. It returns `"unknown"` rather than guessing when data is unclear. Results should be treated as a **triage tool** — verify critical decisions against the official documentation linked in each `note` field.

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [docs/architecture.md](docs/architecture.md) | Pipeline design, data flow, addon matching algorithm |
| [docs/addon-database.md](docs/addon-database.md) | Database schema, categories, how to add new addons |
| [docs/configuration.md](docs/configuration.md) | Flags, environment variables, output formats |
| [docs/ci-cd.md](docs/ci-cd.md) | CI pipeline, release process, automated link checking |
| [docs/contributing.md](docs/contributing.md) | Development setup, testing, project structure |
| [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) | Coding agent instructions for this repository |

## Testing

```bash
go test -v -race ./...
```
