docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

kaddons is configured entirely through CLI flags and environment variables. There are no configuration files.

## Environment variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `GEMINI_API_KEY` | Gemini API key. Used when `--key` flag is not provided. Required for the main command; not needed for `kaddons-validate`. |

## Root command flags

```bash
kaddons [flags]
```

| Flag | Short | Default | Description |
|------|-------|---------|-------------|
| `--namespace` | `-n` | `""` | Filter workloads by Kubernetes namespace. Empty means all namespaces. |
| `--cluster` | `-c` | `""` | Override cluster version detection. Skips `kubectl version` call. Format: `1.30` |
| `--addons` | `-a` | `""` | Comma-separated addon name filter. Only matched addons with these names are analyzed. |
| `--key` | `-k` | `""` | Gemini API key. Overrides `GEMINI_API_KEY` env var. |
| `--model` | `-m` | `gemini-3-flash-preview` | Gemini model to use for compatibility analysis. |
| `--output` | `-o` | `json` | Output format. Must be `json` or `table`. |
| `--version` | | | Print version, commit hash, and build date. |

## Database validation tool

`kaddons-validate` is a separate binary for development and CI — it is not a subcommand of `kaddons`.

```bash
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate              # Run both checks (default)
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --links      # Only reachability checks
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --matrix     # Only content validation
make validate                              # Shorthand
```

Validates addon database URLs. No cluster access or API key needed. Flags `--links` and `--matrix` are mutually exclusive.

- Exit `0`: all checks passed
- Exit `1`: validation failures found (Markdown table printed)
- Exit `2`: runtime error (can't load addon DB, flag parsing error)

## Output formats

### JSON

Default format (`-o json`). Returns a `CompatibilityReport` object:

```json
{
  "k8s_version": "1.30",
  "addons": [
    {
      "name": "cert-manager",
      "namespace": "cert-manager",
      "installed_version": "v1.14.2",
      "compatible": "true",
      "latest_compatible_version": "1.18",
      "note": "Source-cited explanation..."
    }
  ]
}
```

**Field definitions:**

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `k8s_version` | string | Cluster Kubernetes version (top-level) |
| `name` | string | Addon display name |
| `namespace` | string | Kubernetes namespace where the addon runs |
| `installed_version` | string | Version detected from cluster labels/images |
| `compatible` | string | `"true"`, `"false"`, or `"unknown"` |
| `latest_compatible_version` | string | Recommended version (omitted if not determined) |
| `note` | string | Source-cited explanation with URL and support dates |

The `compatible` field is always a JSON string, never a boolean or null. This is enforced by the `Status` type's custom `UnmarshalJSON` which normalizes LLM output.

### Table

Activated with `-o table`. Renders a Unicode box-drawing table to stdout.

Column mapping:

| Column | JSON field |
|--------|-----------|
| NAME | `name` |
| NAMESPACE | `namespace` |
| VERSION | `installed_version` |
| K8S | `k8s_version` (from top-level) |
| COMPATIBLE | `compatible` (`"true"` → `yes`, `"false"` → `NO`, `"unknown"` → `unknown`) |
| LATEST | `latest_compatible_version` |
| NOTE | `note` (truncated to 60 characters) |

## Progress output

Progress messages are written to stderr during execution:

```
Detecting cluster version...
Cluster version: 1.30
Discovered 47 workloads
Matched 12 known addons
Enriching 12 addons...
Analyzing with gemini-3-flash-preview...
Done: 8 compatible, 2 incompatible, 2 unknown
```

This keeps stdout clean for piping JSON output to other tools:

```bash
kaddons | jq '.addons[] | select(.compatible == "false")'
```

Commit message:

feat: add runtime EOL resolution and HTML report output
Resolve EOL slugs from the endoflife v1 product catalog with static fallback aliases, replace table output with HTML file output, and move final compatibility summary to the end of execution while preserving JSON as default stdout.

Made-with: Cursor

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

kaddons is configured entirely through CLI flags and environment variables. There are no configuration files.

## Environment variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `GEMINI_API_KEY` | Gemini API key. Used when `--key` flag is not provided. Required for the main command; not needed for `kaddons-validate`. |

## Root command flags

```bash
kaddons [flags]
```

| Flag | Short | Default | Description |
|------|-------|---------|-------------|
| `--namespace` | `-n` | `""` | Filter workloads by Kubernetes namespace. Empty means all namespaces. |
| `--cluster` | `-c` | `""` | Override cluster version detection. Skips `kubectl version` call. Format: `1.30` |
| `--addons` | `-a` | `""` | Comma-separated addon name filter. Only matched addons with these names are analyzed. |
| `--key` | `-k` | `""` | Gemini API key. Overrides `GEMINI_API_KEY` env var. |
| `--model` | `-m` | `gemini-3-flash-preview` | Gemini model to use for compatibility analysis. |
| `--output` | `-o` | `json` | Output format. Must be `json` or `html`. |
| `--output-path` | | `./kaddons-report.html` | Output file path used when `--output html` is selected. |
| `--version` | | | Print version, commit hash, and build date. |

## Database validation tool

`kaddons-validate` is a separate binary for development and CI — it is not a subcommand of `kaddons`.

```bash
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate              # Run both checks (default)
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --links      # Only reachability checks
go run ./cmd/kaddons-validate --matrix     # Only content validation
make validate                              # Shorthand
```

Validates addon database URLs. No cluster access or API key needed. Flags `--links` and `--matrix` are mutually exclusive.

- Exit `0`: all checks passed
- Exit `1`: validation failures found (Markdown table printed)
- Exit `2`: runtime error (can't load addon DB, flag parsing error)

## Output formats

### JSON

Default format (`-o json`). Returns a `CompatibilityReport` object:

```json
{
  "k8s_version": "1.30",
  "addons": [
    {
      "name": "cert-manager",
      "namespace": "cert-manager",
      "installed_version": "v1.14.2",
      "compatible": "true",
      "latest_compatible_version": "1.18",
      "note": "Source-cited explanation..."
    }
  ]
}
```

**Field definitions:**

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `k8s_version` | string | Cluster Kubernetes version (top-level) |
| `name` | string | Addon display name |
| `namespace` | string | Kubernetes namespace where the addon runs |
| `installed_version` | string | Version detected from cluster labels/images |
| `compatible` | string | `"true"`, `"false"`, or `"unknown"` |
| `latest_compatible_version` | string | Recommended version (omitted if not determined) |
| `note` | string | Source-cited explanation with URL and support dates |

The `compatible` field is always a JSON string, never a boolean or null. This is enforced by the `Status` type's custom `UnmarshalJSON` which normalizes LLM output.

### HTML

Activated with `-o html`. Writes a styled report file to `./kaddons-report.html` by default, or to the `--output-path` location.

## Progress output

Progress messages are written to stderr during execution:

```
Detecting cluster version...
Cluster version: 1.30
Discovered 47 workloads
Matched 12 known addons
Enriching 12 addons...
Analyzing with gemini-3-flash-preview...
Done: 8 compatible, 2 incompatible, 2 unknown
```

The `Done: ...` summary is printed as the final stderr line after output is fully written.

This keeps stdout clean for piping JSON output to other tools:

```bash
kaddons | jq '.addons[] | select(.compatible == "false")'
```
